March twenty twenty-six Monthly Review. March was a convergence month.
Katelyn's eight-day visit, the Anthropic court victory, condo renovation milestones,
and the sudden emergence of The Keeping House writing streak
all collided into the densest month of the year so
far. Patterns. Relationship resets through presence. The four-week pattern of
tension and distance dissolved during Katelyn's visit from March fourteenth
through the twenty-second. Hermann wine weekend, then Jeff City midweek
with friends, then Saint Charles with family. Post-visit texting was
warm and consistent. But the underlying geographic mismatch remains structural,
not relational. Intensive visits reset the emotional baseline. They don't
resolve the distance question. Work as invisible infrastructure. Legislative session
crunch ran underneath everything. H-B twenty-two seventy-three, S-B eight eighty-eight
staffing, Bill Review Training, B-Rs to the Governor's Office delivered
March twenty-sixth. Karen's retirement on April first triggers hiring projects.
Work rarely dominates the daily notes, but it's always there.
The constant baseline that career decisions lurk beneath. Condo project
momentum. The renovation tracked weekly. Shower tile finale with Dad
March seventh and eighth. Bathroom finishing touches and Lowe's runs
mid-March. Flooring quotes. Then carpet install with Ben on March
thirty-first. The home is becoming a shared family project. Dad
on tile, Ben on carpet, Maggie getting curious about Claude.
The integration theme manifesting through the physical space. Reading diet,
intentionally skewed. Seventy-seven percent A-I and tech, explicitly flagged for
diversity improvement. Deep Readwise sessions on A-I governance. Helen Toner,
Jack Clark, Senate guardrails. This isn't accidental. It reflects the
career question and Anthropic tracking. Ezra Klein's cognitive surrender piece
on March twenty-ninth hit the meta-level. The vault itself is
an example of reshaping yourself to be legible to A-I.
Iran war as ambient backdrop. Every briefing references it, from
Day fifteen through Day thirty-one. But it never breaks through
to personal urgency. Oil tracked at one-sixteen peak. Geopolitics noted,
but no personal action or anxiety. An ambient crisis that
shapes the world without demanding immediate response. Tensions. The geography-career-relationship
triangle. This is the big one. The March twenty-ninth job
research, City of Seattle Economics and Revenue Analyst as best
near-term fit, is the strongest signal that the decision is
pressing. But no application was submitted. Meanwhile, the Anthropic pilot
deepens the state government commitment. Katelyn's July time-off needs coordination.
Three vectors pulling in different directions. No resolution yet. Financial
deployment, deferred. The roughly fifty-thousand dollars excess cash plus Roth
max has been flagged every single daily note since March
first. Ten-plus weeks overdue on March eighth. Still open at
month's end. Fully deferred into April. Ray and Pam's Bora
Bora email. Tracked from March first, still floating, through March
twenty-second, seven weeks, write it this week or consciously drop
it, to March thirty-first, now ten weeks, decision time. Appearing
less frequently, suggesting conscious deprioritization. Ecobee sixty-degree automation bug. First
alerted March tenth, flagged four-plus times by March thirteenth, marked
complete March twenty-seventh with no actual fix noted. Probably a
conscious decision to stop worrying about it rather than a
resolution. Wins. Anthropic court victory, March twenty-fourth through twenty-sixth. The
forty-three page preliminary injunction. Classic illegal First Amendment retaliation. Orwellian.
Not tailored to stated national security concern. This was the
month's biggest arc. Tracked obsessively across Dwarkesh Patel, Scott Alexander,
Krugman, Alex Heath, M-I-T Tech Review. Federal agencies can resume
using Claude. This validates the Anthropic thesis Jacob has been
building all year. B-Rs delivered to the Governor's Office, March
twenty-sixth. Multiple briefings flagged this as pressing. Corrected a sixty-five
page document in one evening session. Delivered on schedule during
the most intense week of the month. Fitness consistency. Gym
attendance ramped from four times per week in early March
to five weekdays plus weekend hikes and runs by month's
end. Y-M-C-A booked five days a week, five-fifteen to seven
P-M. Sleep averaging seven-and-a-half hours at ninety-eight percent plus efficiency.
R-E-M consistently over two hours. Reader is the top app
at two hours and ten minutes, replacing scrolling. Sustainable pattern,
not a sprint. The Keeping House emerged. Chapter two, The
Table, written and published as a twenty-two minute podcast episode
on March thirtieth. Chapter one already complete. Characters doc updated
with Callan's backstory. The outline, characters, world, and style guide
were all in place. The daily execution just clicked at
month's end. Publishing to podcast suggests real intent, not just
experimentation. Vault architecture improvements. Daily Briefings reorganized into a dedicated
folder. Weekly review rhythm restored with two consecutive weeks. Sunday
check-in folder created with five reports. The infrastructure is actively
improving. Relationships. Katelyn. Tension to connection. Pre-visit worry gave way
to eight dense days together. Multiple settings. Hermann wine country.
Jeff City with friends, bingo at Last Flight. Saint Charles
with the Brooke family. Post-visit warmth sustained through month's end.
She passed her B-C-P-P exam March twelfth. Hylo Athletics running
shoes acquired for Tacoma City Half Marathon training on May
third. Crow cult doctrine developing via bird feeder. Outstanding item:
July time-off coordination. Ben. Collaborative energy. Settled the Friday dinner
split at about two-thirty-seven, arriving for carpet install March thirty-first,
coordinating Dad's birthday logistics. Maggie getting interested in Claude. The
sibling relationship is deepening through shared condo work. Dad. Practical
partnership. Tile weekend finale March seventh and eighth. Strong at
the broken places. Lowe's receipts flowing. Dinner together. The father-son
dynamic is expressed through doing, not talking. Friends. Thursday April
second dinner with Alex, Chris, and Dustin becomes the reconnection
point. Dustin going to Europe May eighth through the twenty-first,
first time leaving the U-S. Alex sending Apple rankings at
eleven P-M. Chris sharing small-town radio memes. The group is
diverse, distributed, and consistent. Career. Claude pilot approved and advancing.
The pilot moved from approval to implementation discussion. March thirty-first
sets up the April second triple-header. Nine A-M Anthropic pilot
pitch. Two P-M Bill Review Training. Six P-M dinner with
friends. The timing is extraordinary. Pitching Claude at state government
the same week the court freed it from the Pentagon
ban. Seattle job research, March twenty-ninth. City of Seattle Economics
and Revenue Analyst identified as best near-term fit. King County
Deputy Division Director at one-seventy-three to two-nineteen K as a
strong three to five year target. Researched in depth, but
not applied. Karen's retirement, April first. Structural change in the
department. Hiring projects begin immediately. Both an operational demand and
an opportunity. Creative Work. Five chapters in five days would
happen April first through fifth, but the velocity started building
in late March. Chapter two, The Table, published March thirtieth
with a British female voice. P-O-V Callan Marsh. First communal
meal scene. Lena commanding the kitchen. Noor deflating Fen. Callan's
admission: I ran out of reasons to say no. The
writing project didn't build gradually. It emerged fully formed. Outline,
characters, world, style guide, podcast distribution, all ready before the
execution phase started. This is a pattern worth noting for
future creative work. Preparation is invisible until it isn't. Health
and Fitness. Sleep averaging seven-and-a-half hours at ninety-eight percent plus
efficiency. R-E-M consistently over two hours. Nine P-M wind-down routine
established. Screens off, yoga, meditation, journaling, reading, melatonin at nine-thirty.
Y-M-C-A attendance five days a week by month's end. Saturday
hikes, Sunday run-and-lift sessions. Lunchtime walks becoming regular. This is
the strongest fitness month since the streak began. Glucose control
excellent. Mean ninety-nine point seven milligrams per deciliter, ninety-eight point
eight percent time-in-range on Dexcom Stelo C-G-M. No nutritional issues
flagged. Emerging Themes for April. April second as convergence point.
Claude pilot discussion plus government appeal deadline plus friend dinner.
Career, Anthropic alignment, and social life crossing on the same
day. Geography decision becoming urgent. Seattle job postings researched but
not applied. Katelyn's visit reinforced the relationship. Anthropic pilot deepens
the Jeff City commitment. Something has to give. Or not.
But the tension is sharpening. Writing velocity. If the Keeping
House streak continues, and it did, five chapters by April
third, April reveals the creative project as a major time
commitment. The question: can Jacob sustain writing plus work plus
fitness plus relationship maintenance simultaneously? Financial deployment still deferred. Twelve-plus
weeks and counting. This doesn't go away by ignoring it.
Condo entering execution phase. Tile done, bathroom done, carpet done.
Flooring next. The renovation frees mental bandwidth as it nears
completion. Key Insight. Weekly reviews are more valuable than daily
notes. Only thirteen daily notes in thirty-one days, but two
comprehensive weekly reviews that reveal patterns invisible in the sparse
daily entries. The ratio suggests daily capture is episodic while
weekly synthesis is where real thinking happens. Protect the weekly
review habit. It's where the vault earns its keep.